.Id $Id$
.TH gfmd 8 "1 May 2002"
.SH NAME

gfmd(8) \- Gfarm metadata server

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B gfmd
[
.I options
]

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBgfmd\fP is a Gfarm filesystem metadata server for accessing
filesystem metadata of the Gfarm filesystem.  \fBgfmd\fP is needed to
be running on a metadata server node in advance.

It is possible for \fBgfmd\fP to be executed as a non-privileged user
process although other users cannot use it.  Moreover, a \fBgfmd\fP
with a user privilege cannot authenticate using the GSI.

In order to execute \fBgfmd\fP as a non-privileged user process, a
configuration file for a user needs to be specified by the -f option.
At least, the port number used by \fBgfmd\fP should be altered to a
non-privileged port number by metadb_serverport statement in the
configuration file or the -p option.

In this case, the altered port number of \fBgfmd\fP should be
specified by the metadb_serverport statement in ~/.gfarmrc or
/etc/gfarm.conf on a client node.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-d
.br
specifies the debug mode.  With the -d option, gfmd is running as a
foreground process not a daemon.
.TP
.B \-f config file
.br
specifies a configuration file that is read instead of the default
configuration file.
.TP
.B \-p port
.br
specifies a port number used by gfmd.  By default, 601 is used.
.br
Default port requires the root privilege, although privileged ports
are not necessary to execute gfmd.
.TP
.B \-s syslog facility
.br
specifies a syslog facility to report errors by gfmd.  By default,
local0 is used.
.\" .TP
.\" .B \-u username
.\" .br
.\" specifies the effective user id of gfmd by username, when gfmd is
.\" executed as a root process.
.TP
.B \-?
.br
displays a list of command options.

.SH FILES
.SB "/etc/gfarm.conf"

configuration file

.\" .SH SEE ALSO
.\" .BR gfmd.conf (5)
