.Id $Id$
.TH gfsd 8 "1 May 2002"
.SH NAME

gfsd(8) \- Gfarm filesystem daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B gfsd
[
.I options
]

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBgfsd\fP is a filesystem daemon for the Gfarm filesystem, which has
been running on every filesystem node, usually, with a root privilege.

\fBgfsd\fP provides remote file operations with access control in the
Gfarm filesystem as well as user authentication, file replication,
fast invocation, node resource status monitoring.

It is possible for \fBgfsd\fP to be executed as a non-privileged user
process although other users cannot use it.  Moreover, a \fBgfsd\fP
with a user privilege cannot authenticate using the GSI.

In order to execute \fBgfsd\fP as a non-privileged user process, a
configuration file for a user needs to be specified by the -f option.
At least, the port number used by \fBgfsd\fP should be altered to a
non-privileged port number by spool_serverport statement in the
configuration file or the -p option.

In this case, the altered port number of \fBgfsd\fP should be
specified by the spool_serverport statement in ~/.gfarmrc or
/etc/gfarm.conf on a client node.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-d
.br
specifies the debug mode.  With the -d option, gfsd is running as a
foreground process not a daemon.
.TP
.B \-f config file
.br
specifies a configuration file that is read instead of the default
configuration file.
.TP
.B \-p port
.br
specifies a port number of TCP and UDP used by gfsd.  By default, 600
is used.
.TP
.B \-s syslog facility
.br
specifies a syslog facility to report errors by gfsd.  By default,
local0 is used.
.TP
.B \-?
.br
displays a list of command options.

.SH FILES
.SB "/etc/gfarm.conf"

configuration file

.\" .SH SEE ALSO
.\" .BR gfarm.conf (5)
