<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1//EN">
<!-- $Id$ -->

<refentry id='gfs-realpath.3'>

<refentryinfo><date>30 Sep 2003</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfs_realpath</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id='name'>
<refname>gfs_realpath</refname>
<refpurpose>resolve pathname in Gfarm filesystem</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>
<refsynopsisdiv id='synopsis'>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo>
#include &lt;gfarm/gfarm.h&gt;
</funcsynopsisinfo>

<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function><returnvalue>char *</returnvalue>gfs_realpath</function></funcdef>
    <paramdef>const char * <parameter>gfarm_url</parameter></paramdef>
    <paramdef>char ** <parameter>resolved_pathp</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>


</funcsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id='description'><title>DESCRIPTION</title>

<para><function>gfs_realpath</function> expands a home directory '~'
and resolves references to '.', '..' and extra '/' characters in the
null terminated string pointed to by <parameter>gfarm_url</parameter>
and stores the canonicalized absolute pathname to dynamically
allocated memory space whose pointer is returned to
<parameter>resolved_pathp</parameter>.  It will be necessary to free
the dynamically allocated memory space pointed to by
<parameter>resolved_pathp</parameter>.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='return-values'><title>RETURN VALUES</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><constant>NULL</constant></term>
<listitem>
<para>The function terminated successfully.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><constant>GFARM_ERR_NO_MEMORY</constant></term>
<listitem>
<para>Insufficient memory was available.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><constant>GFARM_ERR_NOT_A_DIRECTORY</constant></term>
<listitem>
<para>A component of the path prefix is not a directory.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><constant>GFARM_ERR_INVALID_ARGUMENT</constant></term>
<listitem>
<para><parameter>gfarm_url</parameter> is NULL.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><constant>GFARM_ERR_PERMISSION_DENIED</constant></term>
<listitem>
<para><parameter>gfarm_url</parameter> points outside your accessible
address space.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><constant>GFARM_ERR_NO_SUCH_OBJECT</constant></term>
<listitem>
<para><parameter>gfarm_url</parameter> does not exist.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Others</term>
<listitem>
<para>An error except the above occurred.  The reason is shown by its
pointed strings.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>
</refentry>

