<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1//EN">

<refentry id='gfs-pio-readline.3'>

<refentryinfo><date>13 May 2004</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfs_pio_readline</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id='name'>
<refname>gfs_pio_readline</refname>
<refpurpose>read one line</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>
<refsynopsisdiv id='synopsis'>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo>
#include &lt;gfarm/gfarm.h&gt;
</funcsynopsisinfo>

<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function><returnvalue>char *</returnvalue>gfs_pio_readline</function></funcdef>
    <paramdef>GFS_File <parameter>f</parameter></paramdef>
    <paramdef>char **<parameter>bufp</parameter></paramdef>
    <paramdef>size_t *<parameter>sizep</parameter></paramdef>
    <paramdef>size_t *<parameter>lenp</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>


</funcsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id='description'><title>DESCRIPTION</title>
<para>
<function>gfs_pio_readline()</function> reads one line from
the file specified by the parameter <parameter>gf</parameter>.
</para>

<para>
Parameter <parameter>bufp</parameter>
specifies an address of a pointer variable initialzed by NULL
at first.
<function>gfs_pio_readline()</function> allocates a buffer for
I/O dynamically, and stores the address of the buffer to this
variable pointed by <parameter>bufp</parameter>.
Parameter <parameter>sizep</parameter> specifies an address of
a size_t variable initialized by 0.
This size_t variable is used to record the size of the buffer.
Or, you can specify a buffer allocated by malloc(3) in the
variable pointed by the parameter <parameter>bufp</parameter>.
In this case, you have to specify the size of the allocated
buffer by the parameter <parameter>sizep</parameter>.
If the length of the line exceeds the size of the buffer, 
the buffer will be automatically realloc(3)ed, and the variable
pointed by <parameter>bufp</parameter> and 
<parameter>sizep</parameter> will be updated respectively.

Note that you are responsible to free(3) this buffer.
</para>

<para>
This function returns the length of the line to a variable
pointed by the parameter <parameter>lenp</parameter>.
This length includes newline character.
</para>

<para>
Just like gfs_pio_gets(3), this function doesn't remove newline
character at the end of lines. Also, this function always
appends '\0' at the end of strings.
You can deal with lines which include '\0' character by
using the variable pointed by the parameter <parameter>lenp</parameter>.
</para>

<para>
If the file reaches its end, the length of the result string becomes 0.
</para>

<para>
This function is equivalent to 
gfs_pio_readdelim(f, bufp, sizep, lenp, "\n", 1).
</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='return-values'><title>RETURN VALUES</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><constant>NULL</constant></term>
<listitem>
<para>The function terminated successfully.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><constant>GFARM_ERR_NO_MEMORY</constant></term>
<listitem>
<para>Insufficient memory was available.</para>
<para>Note that you need to free(3) the buffer pointed by the
parameter <parameter>bufp</parameter></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Others</term>
<listitem>
<para>An error except the above occurred.  The reason is shown by its
pointed strings.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='examples'><title>EXAMPLES</title>

<example role="example">
<title>Example of <function>gfs_pio_readline</function> function</title>
<para><programlisting>
#include &lt;stdio.h&gt;
#include &lt;stdlib.h&gt;
#include &lt;gfarm/gfarm.h&gt;

int
main(int argc, char **argv)
{
	char *e;
	GFS_File gf;
	size_t bufsize = 0, len;
	char *buffer = NULL;

	e = gfarm_initialize(&amp;argc, &amp;argv);
	if (e != NULL) {
		fprintf(stderr, "gfarm_initialize: %s\n", e);
		return (EXIT_FAILURE);
	}
	if (argc &lt;= 1) {
		fprintf(stderr, "missing gfarm filename\n");
		return (EXIT_FAILURE);
	}
	e = gfs_pio_open(argv[1], GFARM_FILE_RDONLY, &amp;gf);
	if (e != NULL) {
		fprintf(stderr, "%s: %s\n", argv[1], e);
		return (EXIT_FAILURE);
	}
	e = gfs_pio_set_view_global(gf, 0);
	if (e != NULL) {
		fprintf(stderr, "%s: gfs_pio_set_view_global: %s\n",
		    argv[1], e);
		return (EXIT_FAILURE);
	}

	while ((e = gfs_pio_readline(gf, &amp;buffer, &amp;bufsize, &amp;len))
	    == NULL &amp;&amp; len &gt; 0) {
		printf("&lt;%6d/%6d &gt;%s", len, bufsize, buffer);
	}
	if (buffer != NULL)
		free(buffer);
	if (e != NULL) {
		fprintf(stderr, "ERROR: %s\n", e);
		return (EXIT_FAILURE);
	}
	e = gfs_pio_close(gf);
	if (e != NULL) {
		fprintf(stderr, "gfs_pio_close: %s\n", e);
		return (EXIT_FAILURE);
	}
	e = gfarm_terminate();
	if (e != NULL) {
		fprintf(stderr, "gfarm_initialize: %s\n", e);
		return (EXIT_FAILURE);
	}
	return (EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
</programlisting></para>
</example>

</refsect1>


<refsect1 id='see-also'><title>SEE ALSO</title>
<para>
<citerefentry><refentrytitle>gfs_pio_open</refentrytitle><manvolnum>3</manvolnum></citerefentry>,
<citerefentry><refentrytitle>gfs_pio_getline</refentrytitle><manvolnum>3</manvolnum></citerefentry>,
<citerefentry><refentrytitle>gfs_pio_gets</refentrytitle><manvolnum>3</manvolnum></citerefentry>,
<citerefentry><refentrytitle>gfs_pio_readdelim</refentrytitle><manvolnum>3</manvolnum></citerefentry>
</para>
</refsect1>
</refentry>
