<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1//EN">

<refentry id='gfarm_agent.1'>

<refentryinfo><date>22 Apr 2005</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfarm_agent</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id='name'>
<refname>gfarm_agent</refname>
<refpurpose>Gfarm Filesystem Metadata Cache Server</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id='synopsis'>
<cmdsynopsis>
  <command>gfarm_agent</command>
    <arg choice='opt'><replaceable>options</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1 id='description'><title>DESCRIPTION</title>
<para>
<command>gfarm_agent</command> is a cache server for a Gfarm metadata
server that can be shared by multiple applications on the same
machine.  The cache server greatly improves performance and response
time for a Gfarm file system by hiding network latency to a distant
metadata server, and by preventing performance degradation when
thousands of files are stored in the Gfarm file system.
</para>

<para>
To use the cache server, execute <command>gfarm_agent</command> on a
client node or a compute node, and define environment variables
output by <command>gfarm_agent</command>.
</para>

<programlisting>
% eval `<command>gfarm_agent</command>`
</programlisting>

<para>
Output environment variables are <envar>GFARM_AGENT_SOCK</envar> and
<envar>GFARM_AGENT_PID</envar>.  <envar>GFARM_AGENT_SOCK</envar>
specifies a unix-domain socket that <command>gfarm_agent</command> is
listening to.  <envar>GFARM_AGENT_PID</envar> specifies a process ID
of <command>gfarm_agent</command>.
</para>

<para>
<command>gfarm_agent</command> is running in the background.  When
defining the above environment variables, running
<command>gfarm_agent</command> can be shared.
</para>

<para>
Any number of <command>gfarm_agent</command>s can be running on
different nodes (or even on the same node) at the same time.
Consistency among multiple cache servers and a metadata server is
maintained.
</para>

<para>
To terminate the cache server, send a TERM signal.
</para>

<programlisting>
% kill $GFARM_AGENT_PID
</programlisting>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='options'><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-s</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>generates Bourne shell commands.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-c</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>generates C-shell commands.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-d</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>specifies the debug mode.  <command>gfarm_agent</command> is
running in the foreground not in the background.  Note that 'eval
`<command>gfarm_agent</command>`' cannot work since it runs in the
foreground.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-f</option> <parameter>config-file</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>specifies a configuration file that is read instead of the default
configuration file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-P</option> <parameter>pid-file</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>specifies a file name which records the process ID of
<command>gfarm_agent</command>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-S</option> <parameter>syslog-facility</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>specifies a syslog facility to report errors by
<command>gfarm_agent</command>.  By default, local0 is used.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-v</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>displays verbose error messages in authentication.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-?</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>displays a list of command options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='files'><title>FILES</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><filename>/tmp/.gfarm-XXXXXX/agent.&lt;ppid&gt;</filename></term>
<listitem>
<para>a unix-domain socket that can be connected by the user that
executes <command>gfarm_agent</command> only.  It is automatically
removed when <command>gfarm_agent</command> exits by receiving a TERM
signal.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
