<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1.2//EN"
  "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.1.2/docbookx.dtd">

<!-- $Id: gfls.1.docbook 10309 2016-11-30 23:32:30Z n-soda $ -->

<refentry id="gfarmbb.1">

<refentryinfo><date>4 Oct 2019</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfarmbb</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id="name">
<refname>gfarmbb</refname>
<refpurpose>start and stop Gfarm/BB (Gfarm for node-local burst buffer)</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id="synopsis">
<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">gfarmbb</command>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat"><replaceable>options</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat"><replaceable>mode</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id="description"><title>DESCRIPTION</title>
<para>
Gfarm/BB is an on-demand user-level file system for node-local
storages on compute nodes.  <command moreinfo="none">gfarmbb</command>
starts a Gfarm/BB and stops it.
The <parameter moreinfo="none">mode</parameter> should be start, stop
or status.  When the mode is start, it displays the environment
variable that should be eval'ed to use Gfarm commands as follows;
</para>
<para>
% eval `gfarmbb start`
</para>
<para>
Basically, specify the same option for start, stop and status.
</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="options"><title>OPTIONS</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-mpi</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">mpirun_cmd</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
sets up Gfarm/BB using MPI instead of gfarm-prun.
<parameter moreinfo="none">mpirun_cmd</parameter> is a command
line to execute MPI that is used to configure and execute gfsd on each
node.  This option should be used with the -conf option.  When using
this option, the -e option and the -h option are ignored.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-e</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
excludes Gfmd node from file system nodes.  Gfmd is executed on the
node where gfarmbb is executed.  With this option, gfsd is not
executed on that node.  This option expects there are N + 1 node
allocations, and gfarmbb is executed on the last host in the hostfile.
This option is available only for gfarmbb start.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-h</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">hostfile</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
specifies a <parameter moreinfo="none">hostfile</parameter> that
contains a list of hostnames of compute nodes.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-scr</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">scratch_dir</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
specifies a scratch directory on each compute node for Gfarm/BB.  If
it does not exist, it is created.  This directory will be removed by
gfarmbb stop.  Default is /tmp/gfarmbb-scratch.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-conf</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">conf_dir</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
specifies a scratch directory that can be shared among compute nodes
to store temporal configuration files.  If it does not exist, it is
created.  This directory will be removed by gfarmbb stop.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-l</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
enables access to Gfarm/BB from login nodes.  With this option, the
Gfarm/BB configuration file $HOME/.gfarm2rc-$ID is created in the home
directory.  ID consists of the hostname of the master compute node and
the process ID.  To access to Gfarm/BB, specify it by
GFARM_CONFIG_FILE environment variable.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-L</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">log_dir</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
specifies a log directory.  If it does not exist, it is created.  Log
file names of gfmd and gfsd are gfmd-$ID.log and gfsd-$ID.log,
respectively.  Default directory is scratch_dir/log.
This option is available only for gfarmbb start.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-m</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">mount_point</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
When this option is specified, a Gfarm/BB is mounted at the specified
mount point on each compute node.  mount.gfarm2fs is required.  This
option is available only for gfarmbb start.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-p</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">period</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
specifies the period of a shared secret key in seconds for Gfarm/BB.
This period should be longer than the job execution duration.  Default
is 86400 seconds (1 day).
This option is available only for gfarmbb start.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-c</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
generates C-shell commands.  This option is available only for gfarmbb
start.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-s</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
generates Bourne shell commands.  This option is available only for
gfarmbb start.  This is default.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>
</refentry>
