<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1.2//EN"
  "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.1.2/docbookx.dtd">

<refentry id="gfcksum.1">

<refentryinfo><date>3 Mar 2014</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfcksum</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>
<refnamediv id="name">
<refname>gfcksum</refname>
<refpurpose>print checksum</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id="synopsis">
<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">gfcksum</command>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-rl</arg>
    <group choice="opt" rep="norepeat">
      <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">-T</arg>
      <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">-t</arg>
    </group>
    <arg choice="plain" rep="repeat"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">gfcksum</command>
    <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">-c</arg>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-rlv</arg>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-h <replaceable>host</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice="plain" rep="repeat"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id="description"><title>DESCRIPTION</title>
<para>
<command moreinfo="none">gfcksum</command> prints checksum of
specified files.  When -r option is specified, it prints checksum of
subentries in the specified directories recursively.
</para>

<para>
When -t option is specified, only checksum type which is currently set
to the file is printed.
When -T option is specified, which checksum type will be calculated is printed.
</para>

<para>
When the -c option is specified, it calculates the checksum of the
specified files, and compares it with the checksum stored in the
metadata.  The -h option specifies the location of the file replica to
be calculated.  With the -v option, the verbose information including
modification time of the file replica is displayed.
</para>

<para>
If the -l option is present, <command moreinfo="none">gfcksum</command>
displays a path for each file.
By default, gfcksum shows its basename only.
</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="options"><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-r</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays subdirectories recursively.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-c</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Calculates the checksum of the specified files, and compares it with
the checksum stored in the metadata.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-h</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">host</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies the location of the file replica, when the -c option
is specified.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-v</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays the verbose information including modification time of
the file replica, when the -c option is specified.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-l</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays a path for each file.
By default, gfcksum shows its basename only.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-?</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays a list of command options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>
</refentry>

