<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1.2//EN"
  "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.1.2/docbookx.dtd">


<refentry id="gfedquota.1">

<refentryinfo><date>25 Aug 2015</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfedquota</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id="name">
<refname>gfedquota</refname>
<refpurpose>edit file limits</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id="synopsis">
<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">gfedquota</command>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat"><replaceable>options</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1 id="description"><title>DESCRIPTION</title>

<para><command moreinfo="none">gfedquota</command> is a editor of
limits (quotas) for users and groups.</para>

<para>There are two kinds of limits which are "soft limit" and "hard
limit".  Soft limits have a grace period.

Types of limits are the total number of files, the total space of
files, the total number of files include replicas and the total space
of files include replicas.
Setting 'disable' or -1 indicates unlimited.
If no option for limits is specified, no quota is imposed.
</para>
<para>
This command can be executed by an administrator in the gfarmadm
group.
</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="options"><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-P NAME, --path=NAME</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a path name to specify a metadata server instead of
the root metadata server.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-u NAME, --user=NAME</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a user name to display the current usage and limits.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-g NAME, --group=NAME</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a group name to display the current usage and limits.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-G SECOND, --grace=SECOND</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a grace period in second for soft limits.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-s BYTE, --softspc=BYTE</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a soft limit of file space in byte.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-h BYTE, --hardspc=BYTE</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a hard limit of file space in byte.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-m NUM, --softnum=NUM</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a soft limit of file number.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-n NUM, --hardnum=NUM</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a hard limit of file number.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-S BYTE, --physoftspc=BYTE</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a soft limit of physical space in byte include replicas.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-H BYTE, --phyhardspc=BYTE</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a hard limit of physical space in byte include replicas.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-M NUM, --physoftnum=NUM</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a soft limit of physical number include replicas.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-N NUM, --phyhardnum=NUM</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a hard limit of physical number include replicas.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-?</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays a list of command options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="see-also"><title>SEE ALSO</title>
<para>
  <citerefentry>
  <refentrytitle>gfquota</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
  </citerefentry>,
  <citerefentry>
  <refentrytitle>gfquotacheck</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
  </citerefentry>,
  <citerefentry>
  <refentrytitle>gfusage</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
  </citerefentry>
</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
