<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1.2//EN"
  "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.1.2/docbookx.dtd">


<refentry id="gffindxmlattr.1">

<refentryinfo><date>18 Aug 2008</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gffindxmlattr</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id="name">
<refname>gffindxmlattr</refname>
<refpurpose>Find XML extended attributes by XPath query</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id="synopsis">
<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">gffindxmlattr</command>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-d <replaceable>depth</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-F <replaceable>delim</replaceable></arg>
    <group choice="opt" rep="norepeat">
      <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat"><replaceable>XPath</replaceable></arg>
      <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-f <replaceable>XPath-file</replaceable></arg>
    </group>
    <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id="description"><title>DESCRIPTION</title>

<para>
gffindxmlattr finds XML extended attributes by a specified XPath
expression, and displays path names and the corresponding XML extended
attribute names.  When a file is specified, XML extended attributes
associated to the file are searched if there is the read permission.
</para>

<para>
When a directory is specified, files or directories within the depth
are recursively searched.  When 0 is specified for the depth, the
specified directory is searched.  If the depth is not specified, all
files and directories under the specified directory are searched.  If
the negative value is specified, gffindxmlattr returns error.
Directories that do not have execute permission cannot be searched.
</para>

<para>
gffindxmlattr displays path names and the corresponding XML extended
attribute separated by the delim.
</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="options"><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-d</option> depth</term>
<listitem>
<para>specifies the depth to be searched recursively.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-F</option> delim</term>
<listitem>
<para>specifies a delimiter that separates the path name and the XML
extended attribute name.  By detault, the delimiter is TAB.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-f</option> XPath-file</term>
<listitem>
<para>specifies a file that contains XPath expression.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-?</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>displays usage.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="see-also"><title>SEE ALSO</title>
<para>
  <citerefentry>
  <refentrytitle>gfxattr</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
  </citerefentry>
</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
