<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1.2//EN"
  "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.1.2/docbookx.dtd">

<!-- $Id$ -->

<refentry id="gfimport-fixed.1">

<refentryinfo><date>5 Jun 2003</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfimport_fixed</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id="name">
<refname>gfimport_fixed</refname>
<refpurpose>divide and register a fixed-size data file</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id="synopsis">
<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">gfimport_fixed</command>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat"><replaceable>options</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat"><replaceable>file</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id="description"><title>DESCRIPTION</title>
<para><command moreinfo="none">gfimport_fixed</command> is a sample program for dividing a file to file
fragments and registering it to the Gfarm filesystem.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="options"><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-H</option></term>
<listitem>
<para><parameter moreinfo="none">hostfile</parameter>
specifies a hostname list of filesystem nodes.  The <parameter moreinfo="none">hostfile</parameter>
consists of a hostname of a filesystem node in each line.  The file is
uniformly divided into file fragments, each file fragment except the
last one having the same size.
if ``-'' is specified, standard input is used to read the host list.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-f</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">fragment file</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>specifies a <parameter moreinfo="none">fragment file</parameter> that consists of a fragment size and a
filesystem node separated by a white space in each line.
</para>
<para>
if ``-'' is specified, standard input is used.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-l</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">record size</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>specifies the size of fixed-size records in bytes.  With this option,
file is divided by the multiple size of the <parameter moreinfo="none">record size</parameter>.
Default size is 1.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-o</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">gfarm-URL</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>specifies an output file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-?</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>displays a list of command options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="examples"><title>EXAMPLES</title>

<example role="example">
<title>Importing by splitting to specified number of fragments</title>
<para>
The following is an example using <command moreinfo="none">gfimport_fixed</command> 
to import a <replaceable>source_file</replaceable> 
as <replaceable>gfarm:file</replaceable> 
by splitting to 8 fragments.
<screen format="linespecific">
gfsched -N 8 | gfimport_fixed -H - -o gfarm:file source_file
</screen>
</para>
</example>

<example role="example">
<title>Importing by splitting to specified number of fragments
  for particular program
</title>
<para>
The following is an example using <command moreinfo="none">gfimport_fixed</command> 
to import a <replaceable>source_file</replaceable> 
as <replaceable>gfarm:file</replaceable> 
by splitting to 8 fragments
to be processed by <replaceable>gfarm:prog</replaceable> program.
<screen format="linespecific">
gfsched -N 8 -p gfarm:prog | gfimport_fixed -H - -o gfarm:file source_file
</screen>
</para>
</example>

<example role="example">
<title>Importing into same disposition with an existing gfarm file</title>
<para>
The following is an example using <command moreinfo="none">gfimport_fixed</command>
to import a <replaceable>source_file</replaceable> 
as <replaceable>gfarm:file</replaceable> 
into same disposition with existing file
<replaceable>gfarm:template</replaceable>.
<screen format="linespecific">
gfsched gfarm:template | gfimport_fixed -H - -o gfarm:file source_file
</screen>
</para>
</example>

</refsect1>


<refsect1 id="see-also"><title>SEE ALSO</title>
<para>
  <citerefentry>
  <refentrytitle>gfimport_text</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
  </citerefentry>,
  <citerefentry>
  <refentrytitle>gfsched</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
  </citerefentry>,
  <citerefentry>
  <refentrytitle>gfarm.conf</refentrytitle><manvolnum>5</manvolnum>
  </citerefentry>
</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
