<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1.2//EN"
  "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.1.2/docbookx.dtd">

<!-- $Id$ -->

<refentry id="gfptar.1">

<refentryinfo><date>29 Jan 2023</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfptar</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id="name">
<refname>gfptar</refname>
<refpurpose>archive files in parallel</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id="synopsis">

<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">gfptar</command>
  <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">OPTIONS</arg>
  <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">-c <replaceable>outdir</replaceable></arg>
  <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-C <replaceable>basedir</replaceable></arg>
  <arg choice="plain" rep="repeat"><replaceable>member</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>

<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">gfptar</command>
  <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">OPTIONS</arg>
  <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">-x <replaceable>outdir</replaceable></arg>
  <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat"><replaceable>indir</replaceable></arg>
  <arg choice="opt" rep="repeat"><replaceable>member</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>

<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">gfptar</command>
  <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">OPTIONS</arg>
  <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">-t <replaceable>indir</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>

</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id="description"><title>DESCRIPTION</title>

<para>
  <command moreinfo="none">gfptar</command>
  creates archive files to Gfarm, or extracts files from archive files on Gfarm.
  The archive files consist of multiple tar files and list files of archived members in a directory.
  Creation or extraction is performed in parallel for each tar file in a directory for archive.
</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="operation-mode"><title>OPERATION MODE</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
  <term><option>-c(--create)</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">outdir</parameter>
    <option>-C(--basedir)</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">basedir</parameter> <parameter moreinfo="none">member...</parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      Create <parameter moreinfo="none">outdir</parameter> directory, and create archive files in the new directory.
    </para>
    <para>
      <parameter moreinfo="none">member...</parameter> (files or directories) in <parameter moreinfo="none">basedir</parameter> are archived.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term><option>-x(--extract)</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">outdir</parameter>
    <parameter moreinfo="none">indir</parameter> <parameter moreinfo="none">[member...]</parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      Create <parameter moreinfo="none">outdir</parameter> directory, and extract files from
      archive files of <parameter moreinfo="none">indir</parameter> to the new directory.
    </para>
    <para>
      When <parameter moreinfo="none">member</parameter>s are specified, only the specified members will be extracted.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term><option>-t(--list)</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">indir</parameter></term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      List the contents of archive files in <parameter moreinfo="none">indir</parameter>.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="path-style"><title>PATH STYLE</title>

<para>
  <parameter moreinfo="none">outdir</parameter>, <parameter moreinfo="none">indir</parameter>
  and <parameter moreinfo="none">basedir</parameter> must be one of the following formats.
</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
  <term><parameter moreinfo="none">path-name</parameter></term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      is a relative path or an absolute path of a local file system.
      When the path is a mount point on gfarm2fs, tar files are operated
      without passing through the gfarm2fs.
      (Non-tar files are operated via gfarm2fs.)
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term><parameter moreinfo="none">gfarm:...</parameter></term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      is a Gfarm URL of a Gfarm file system.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="options"><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-j, --jobs=</option><parameter moreinfo="none">NUM</parameter></term>
<listitem>
  <para>
    Specifies the maximum number of jobs to create archive files or extract from archive files simultaneously.
  </para>
  <para>
    The default value is 4.
  </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-s, --size=</option><parameter moreinfo="none">BYTES</parameter></term>
<listitem>
  <para>
    Specifies assumed size in bytes per output tar file for <option>--create</option>.

    Since compression ratios vary depending on the content of the file and the compression type,
    Archive files will be created
    for each group of files divided by the assumed size calculated considering the assumed compression ratio (--ratio option).
  </para>
  <para>
    The default value is 200M (200 * 1024^2 = 209715200) (200 MiB).
  </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-r, --ratio=</option><parameter moreinfo="none">RATIO</parameter></term>
<listitem>
  <para>
    Specifies the assumed compression ratio in percentage for <option>--create</option>.
  </para>
  <para>
    The default value is 50 (50 %).
  </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-T, --type=</option><parameter moreinfo="none">TYPE</parameter></term>
<listitem>
  <para>
    Specifies a compression type for <option>--create</option>.
    "gz" means gzip type (suffix is .tar.gz).
    "bz2" means bzip2 type (suffix is .tar.bz2).
    "xz" means xz type (suffix is .tar.xz).
    "no" means no compression.
  </para>
  <para>
    This option is unnecessary for --extract (determine type automatically).
  </para>
  <para>
    The default value is gz.
  </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-I, --use-compress-program=</option><parameter moreinfo="none">COMMAND</parameter></term>
<listitem>
  <para>
    Specifies a command of compression program.
    Suffix for creating tar files must be specified by <option>--type</option> option.
    The command must accept -d option for decompression.
  </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-q, --quiet</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
  Suppresses non-error messages.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-v, --verbose</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
  Displays verbose output.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-d, --debug</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
  Displays debug output.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-?, -h, --help</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
  Displays a list of command options.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="examples"><title>EXAMPLES</title>

<para>
  Creates archive files from local directories to a Gfarm directory.
  The archived files of this example include dir1 and dir2 as relative path.
  <literallayout format="linespecific" class="normal">
    $ gfptar -c gfarm:/home/user1/out.gfptar -C /home/user1 ./dir1 ./dir2
  </literallayout>
</para>

<para>
  Extract files from a Gfarm directory to a local directory.
  The extracted files of this example are dir1 and dir2.
  <literallayout format="linespecific" class="normal">
    $ gfptar -x /home/user1/outdir gfarm:/home/user1/out.gfptar
  </literallayout>
</para>

<para>
  Creates archive files from Gfarm directories to a Gfarm directory.
  NOTE: If there are many small size files, it may perform better to specify a path on gfarm2fs for <option>-C</option> option.
  <literallayout format="linespecific" class="normal">
    $ gfptar -c gfarm:/home/user1/out.gfptar -C gfarm:/home/user1 ./dir
  </literallayout>
</para>

<para>
  Extract files from a Gfarm directory to a Gfarm directory.
  NOTE: If there are many small size files, it may perform better to specify a path on gfarm2fs for <option>-x</option> option.
  <literallayout format="linespecific" class="normal">
    $ gfptar -x gfarm:/home/user1/dir2 gfarm:/home/user1/out.gfptar
  </literallayout>
</para>

<para>
  Extract a specified file from a Gfarm directory to a local directory.
  The extracted file of this example is dir1/path/to/file only.
  <literallayout format="linespecific" class="normal">
    $ gfptar -x /home/user1/outdir gfarm:/home/user1/out.gfptar dir1/path/to/file1
  </literallayout>
</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="see-also"><title>SEE ALSO</title>
<para>
  <citerefentry>
  <refentrytitle>gfreg</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
  </citerefentry>,
  <citerefentry>
  <refentrytitle>gfexport</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
  </citerefentry>
</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
