<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1//EN">
<!-- $Id$ -->

<refentry id='gfreg.1'>

<refentryinfo><date>5 Apr 2006</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfreg</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id='name'>
<refname>gfreg</refname>
<refpurpose>register a Gfarm file, Gfarm file fragments, or a Gfarm directory</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id='synopsis'>
<cmdsynopsis>
  <command>gfreg</command>
    <arg choice='opt'>-p </arg>
    <group choice='opt'>
      <arg choice='plain'>-h <replaceable>filesystem-node</replaceable></arg>
      <arg choice='plain'>-H <replaceable>hostfile</replaceable></arg>
      <arg choice='plain'>-D <replaceable>domainname</replaceable></arg>
    </group>
    <arg choice='opt'>-a <replaceable>architecture</replaceable></arg>
    <!-- arg choice='opt'>-N <replaceable>num-of-replicas</replaceable></arg -->
    <arg choice='plain'><replaceable>program</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='plain'>...</arg>
    <arg choice='plain'><replaceable>gfarm-URL</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>

<cmdsynopsis>
  <command>gfreg</command>
    <arg choice='opt'>-i </arg>
    <group choice='opt'>
      <arg choice='plain'>-h <replaceable>filesystem-node</replaceable></arg>
      <arg choice='plain'>-H <replaceable>hostfile</replaceable></arg>
      <arg choice='plain'>-D <replaceable>domainname</replaceable></arg>
    </group>
    <arg choice='plain'><replaceable>localfile</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='plain'>...</arg>
    <arg choice='plain'><replaceable>gfarm-URL</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>

<cmdsynopsis>
  <command>gfreg</command>
    <arg choice='plain'>-N <replaceable>total-num-of-fragments</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='plain'>-I <replaceable>fragment-index</replaceable></arg>
    <group choice='opt'>
      <arg choice='plain'>-h <replaceable>filesystem-node</replaceable></arg>
      <arg choice='plain'>-H <replaceable>hostfile</replaceable></arg>
      <arg choice='plain'>-D <replaceable>domainname</replaceable></arg>
    </group>
    <arg choice='plain'><replaceable>localfile</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='plain'>...</arg>
    <arg choice='plain'><replaceable>gfarm-URL</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>

<cmdsynopsis>
  <command>gfreg</command>
    <arg choice='plain'>-r</arg>
    <group choice='opt'>
      <arg choice='plain'>-h <replaceable>filesystem-node</replaceable></arg>
      <arg choice='plain'>-H <replaceable>hostfile</replaceable></arg>
      <arg choice='plain'>-D <replaceable>domainname</replaceable></arg>
    </group>
    <arg choice='opt'>-a <replaceable>architecture</replaceable></arg>
    <group choice='opt'>
      <arg choice='plain'><replaceable>directory</replaceable></arg>
      <arg choice='plain'><replaceable>program</replaceable></arg>
      <arg choice='plain'><replaceable>localfile</replaceable></arg>
    </group>
    <arg choice='plain'>...</arg>
    <arg choice='plain'><replaceable>gfarm-URL</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id='description'><title>DESCRIPTION</title>

<para>The first form copies and registers the
<parameter>program</parameter> as a Gfarm file
<parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter> in the Gfarm filesystem.  When
<parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter> is a directory, multiple programs
can be specified.  After the registration, the
<parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter> can be specified as a program name of
gfrun(1) and gfmpirun_p4(1).  Without the <option>-p</option> option,
only executable file can be specified.  With the <option>-p</option>
option, non-executable file can be specified as well.  Without the
<option>-a</option> option or the <option>-h</option>
option, architecture of the <parameter>program</parameter> is assumed
to be the same architecture as the client host on that gfreg(1) is
executed, which is obtained by the Gfarm metaserver.
<!--
The
<option>-N</option> option specifies the number of file replicas.
When it is omitted, one file replica is created.  The destination
filesystem nodes are automatically selected among filesystem nodes of
the same architecture.
 -->
</para>

<para>The second form registers one or more
<parameter>localfile</parameter>s as a single Gfarm file.  Without the
<option>-i</option> option, only non-executable file can be specified
as <parameter>localfile</parameter>.  With the <option>-i</option>
option, both excutable and non-executable file can be specified as
<parameter>localfile</parameter>. 
The destination filesystem node will be automatically selected by CPU
load average.  With any one of <option>-h</option>, <option>-H</option>, 
<option>-D</option> options, filesystem node can be limited.
</para>

<para>The third form registers <parameter>localfile</parameter> as a
file fragment of a Gfarm file.  The total number of fragments and the
fragment index are specified by the <option>-N</option> option and the
<option>-I</option> option, respectively.  When
<parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter> is a directory, multiple
<parameter>localfile</parameter>s can be specified.
The destination filesystemnode will be automatically decided by CPU
load average unless any one of <option>-h</option>,
<option>-H</option>, <option>-D</option> options is explicitly
specified.  When the gfreg command of this form is executed on a
filesystem node, the local filesystem node is always selected rather
than a remote filesystemnode.  In this case, <option>-h</option>,
<option>-H</option>, <option>-D</option> options help to store files
dispersively.
</para>

<para>The fourth form registers the <parameter>directory</parameter>
as a Gfarm directory <parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter>, the
<parameter>program</parameter> or the <parameter>localfile</parameter>
as a Gfarm file <parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter>.
If <parameter>directory</parameter> have some sub directories and/or
files, they will be registered recursively.  The non-executable file 
<parameter>localfile</parameter> will be registered as a file has
one fragment.  A non-executable file in the
<parameter>directory</parameter> will be registered in the same way.
When <parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter> already exists as a directory,
multiple <parameter>directorie</parameter>s,
<parameter>program</parameter>s, and <parameter>localfile</parameter>s
can be specified and they will be registered in
<parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter>.  They can be mixed in parameteres,
while other forms inhibit this manner.
If <parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter> does not exist, one
<parameter>directory</parameter> or one
<parameter>program</parameter>, or one
<parameter>localfile</parameter> can be specified and it will be
registered as <parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter>.
Refer to the first form's part above to specify filesystem node
thatprogfarms and files will reside with the <option>-a</option>
option or the <option>-h</option> option.
</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='options'><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-f</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>overwrites gfarm-URL even if it exits as a Gfarm file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-?</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>displays a list of command options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
