<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1//EN">
<!-- $Id$ -->

<refentry id='gfrep.1'>

<refentryinfo><date>12 Nov 2006</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfrep</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id='name'>
<refname>gfrep</refname>
<refpurpose>replicate Gfarm files</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id='synopsis'>
<cmdsynopsis>
  <command>gfrep</command>
    <arg choice='plain'>-H <replaceable>hostfile</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='opt'>-vm</arg>
    <arg choice='plain' rep='repeat'><replaceable>gfarm-URL</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<cmdsynopsis>
  <command>gfrep</command>
    <arg choice='plain'>-P <replaceable>host-pair-file</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='opt'>-vm</arg>
    <arg choice='plain' rep='repeat'><replaceable>gfarm-URL</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<cmdsynopsis>
  <command>gfrep</command>
    <arg choice='plain'>-d <replaceable>destination-node</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='opt'>-s <replaceable>source-node</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='opt'>-I <replaceable>file-section</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='opt'>-vm</arg>
    <arg choice='plain' rep='repeat'><replaceable>gfarm-URL</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<cmdsynopsis>
  <command>gfrep</command>
    <arg choice='opt'>-D <replaceable>destination-domainname</replaceable></arg>
    <group choice='opt'>
      <arg choice='opt'>-S <replaceable>source-domainname</replaceable></arg>
      <arg choice='opt'>-s <replaceable>source-node</replaceable></arg>
    </group>
    <arg choice='opt'>-N <replaceable>num-of-replicas</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='opt'>-v</arg>
    <arg choice='plain' rep='repeat'><replaceable>gfarm-URL</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id='description'><title>DESCRIPTION</title>

<para><command>gfrep</command> creates replicas of Gfarm files
specified by the <parameter>Gfarm-URL</parameter>.</para>
<para>If the <parameter>Gfarm-URL</parameter> parameter is a directory,
it will be copied recursively.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='options'><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-D</option> <parameter>destination-domainname</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies the domain name of destination filesystem nodes to which
replicas will be copied.
This option is used alone, or with the <option>-S</option>
or <option>-s</option> option.</para>
<para>If neither this nor the <option>-d</option> option is specified, 
replicas may be copied to any of the hosts registered in the metadata.
Please refer to the description of the <option>-N</option> option for details.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-d</option> <parameter>destination-node</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies one destination filesystem node where replicas
will be copied.
This option is used alone, or with the <option>-s</option> 
option.</para>
<para>If neither this nor the <option>-D</option> option is specified, 
replicas may be copied to any of the hosts registered in the metadata.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-H</option> <parameter>hostfile</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a file which describes hostnames of
destination filesystem nodes on which the replica will be made.
The <parameter>hostfile</parameter> consists of a filesystem node name
on each line.
If the number of nodes listed in the <parameter>hostfile</parameter>
is less than the total number of file fragments,
it is treated as if the node names are specified repeatedly.
</para>
<para>
if ``-'' is specified, standard input is used to read the host list.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-I</option> <parameter>file-section</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a file section name to be copied.
Currently, this option can be specified only with the <option>-d</option>
option.
</para>
<para>
It is possible to omit this option.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-m</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Lets gfrep command do a migrate/move, instead of doing replication.
Currently, this works only with the -H, -P and -d options.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-N</option> <parameter>num-of-replicas</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies the required number of file replicas, counting already
existing ones.
If there are a sufficient number of replicas in the destination nodes,
neither any copying nor any removal will be done.
This option is used alone, or with the <option>-D</option>,
<option>-S</option> or <option>-s</option> option.</para>
<para>If this option is not specified, <option>-N 1</option> is assumed.</para>
<para>The source nodes specified by the <option>-S</option>
or <option>-s</option> option are excluded from the destination nodes.
In other words, it's guaranteed that the number of replicas on
hosts, except those specified by the <option>-S</option> or <option>-s</option>
option, are the same or more than the number specified by the
<option>-N</option> option.
However, when the destination is a subset of the source,
i.e. when the exclusion makes the destination an empty set,
this exclusion is not applied.
For example, if gfrep is executed with the
``<option>-N 3 -S subdomain.example.org -D example.org</option>'' option,
it's guaranteed that there are at least 3 replicas in the hosts belonging
to example.org, excepting subdomain.example.org.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-P</option> <parameter>host-pair-file</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a file which describes hostname pairs of
source nodes and destination nodes.
The <parameter>host-pair-file</parameter> consists of a pair
of a source node name and a destination node name in this order on each line.
The replica will be copied to the destination node, only if it exists
on the source node of the pair.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-S</option> <parameter>source-domainname</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies the domain name of source filesystem nodes where replicas
will be copied from.
This option is used alone, or with the <option>-D</option>
option.</para>
<para>If neither this nor the <option>-s</option> option is specified, 
the source nodes will be selected from all nodes.</para>
<para>The hosts specified by this option will be excluded from
the destination nodes.
Please refer to the description of the <option>-N</option> option for details.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-s</option> <parameter>source-node</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a source filesystem node where replicas
will be copied from.
This option is used alone, or with the <option>-D</option>
or <option>-d</option> option.</para>
<para>If neither this nor the <option>-s</option> option is specified, 
the source nodes will be selected from all nodes.</para>
<para>The host specified by this option will be excluded from
the destination nodes.
Please refer to the description of the <option>-N</option> option for details.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-v</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays verbose output.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-?</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays a list of command options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>
</refentry>
