<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1.2//EN"
  "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.1.2/docbookx.dtd">


<refentry id="gfrepcheck.1">

<refentryinfo><date>26 Oct 2017</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfrepcheck</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id="name">
<refname>gfrepcheck</refname>
<refpurpose>control replica_check</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id="synopsis">
<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">gfrepcheck</command>
  <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-P <replaceable>path</replaceable></arg>
  <group choice="req" rep="norepeat">
    <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">start(or enable)</arg>
    <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">stop(or disable)</arg>
    <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">status</arg>
  </group>
</cmdsynopsis>

<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">gfrepcheck</command>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-P <replaceable>path</replaceable></arg>
    <group choice="req" rep="norepeat">
      <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">remove</arg>
      <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">reduced_log</arg>
      <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">remove_grace_used_space_ratio</arg>
      <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">remove_grace_time</arg>
      <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">host_down_thresh</arg>
      <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">sleep_time</arg>
      <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">minimum_interval</arg>
    </group>
    <group choice="req" rep="norepeat">
      <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat"><replaceable>VALUE</replaceable></arg>
      <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">status</arg>
    </group>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1 id="description"><title>DESCRIPTION</title>
  <para>Displays the current settings and modifies the settings for
    replica_check.
  </para>
  <para>When "status" is specified as an argument, the current
    settings are displayed.  "gfrepcheck status" displays not only the
    current setting but also the current status of processing.</para>
  <para>When a value for the configuration directive is specified as
    an argument, the setting is dynamically changed.  gfarm2.conf
    should be edited to persist the settings.</para>
  <para>Please see the manual page of gfarm2.conf(5) for details of
  the following configuration directives.</para>
  <para>gfrepcheck * : "replica_check" directive</para>
  <para>gfrepcheck remove * : "replica_check_remove" directive</para>
  <para>gfrepcheck reduced_log * : "replica_check_reduced_log" directive</para>
  <para>gfrepcheck remove_grace_used_space_ratio * : "replica_check_remove_grace_used_space_ratio" directive</para>
  <para>gfrepcheck remove_grace_time * : "replica_check_remove_grace_time" directive</para>
  <para>gfrepcheck host_down_thresh * : "replica_check_host_down_thresh" directive</para>
  <para>gfrepcheck sleep_time * : "replica_check_sleep_time" directive</para>
  <para>gfrepcheck minimum_interval * : "replica_check_minimum_interval" directive</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="options"><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><option>-P</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">path</parameter></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>
	This option specifies a pathname or a Gfarm URL to identify
	a metadata server which will be accessed by this command.
	If not specified, "/" is used as the default value.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><option>-?</option></term>
    <listitem>
      <para>Prints usage.</para>
    </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>
</refentry>
