<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1//EN">
<!-- $Id$ -->

<refentry id='gfsched.1'>

<refentryinfo><date>12 Nov 2006</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfsched</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id='name'>
<refname>gfsched</refname>
<refpurpose>create a host file using file-affinity scheduling</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id='synopsis'>

<cmdsynopsis>
  <command>gfsched</command>
    <arg choice='opt'>-U</arg>
    <arg choice='opt'>-I <replaceable>fragment-index</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='opt'>-p <replaceable>gfarm-program-URL</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='plain'><replaceable>gfarm-URL</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='opt'><replaceable>output-hostfile</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>

<cmdsynopsis>
  <command>gfsched</command>
    <arg choice='opt'>-U</arg>
    <arg choice='plain'>-N <replaceable>number</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='opt'>-p <replaceable>gfarm-program-URL</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice='opt' rep='repeat'><replaceable>host</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>

</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id='description'><title>DESCRIPTION</title>
<para>
  <command>gfsched</command> creates a host file
  using the file-affinity scheduling of <parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter>.
  In other words, <command>gfsched</command> chooses and displays
  hostnames, matching the number with the fragments of
  the <parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter>, giving priority, as far as possible to
  the host which has the fragment.
  When <parameter>output-hostfile</parameter> is omitted,
  <command>gfsched</command> displays to the standard output.
</para>

<para>
  If <option>-N</option> is specified instead of 
  <parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter>, <command>gfsched</command> chooses and
  displays a specified number of hosts from the hosts in the arguments.
  If no hosts are specified in the argument, <command>gfsched</command>
  chooses hosts from all registered hosts.
</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='options'><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-I</option> <parameter>fragment-index</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies the fragment index to be scheduled.
<!--
If the <parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter> is an executable file,
an architecture name, for example, sparc-sun-solaris8,
can be used to select a host which holds the executable file
for the architecture.
-->
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-U</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Suppresses authentication check.
Without this option, the scheduler checks whether the user will be 
successfully authenticated with the hosts or not.
This option omits the check to make scheduling faster,
but that creates a risk that hosts which fail authentication with
the user may be scheduled.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-p</option> <parameter>program-URL</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Creates a host file with a program name which will be used
to process the <parameter>gfarm-URL</parameter>.
In other words, only hosts which can run the <parameter>program-URL</parameter>
will be selected, if this option is specified.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-?</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays a list of command options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>
</refentry>
