<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1.2//EN"
  "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.1.2/docbookx.dtd">


<refentry id="gfspoolpath.1">

<refentryinfo><date>16 Feb 2016</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfspoolpath</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id="name">
<refname>gfspoolpath</refname>
<refpurpose>display a pathname on a filesystem node about a Gfarm file</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id="synopsis">

<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">gfspoolpath</command>
	<arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-s <replaceable>spool_directory</replaceable></arg>
	<arg choice="opt" rep="repeat"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>

<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">gfspoolpath</command>
	<arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-I</arg>
	<arg choice="opt" rep="repeat"><replaceable>inode_number:generation_number</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>

</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id="description"><title>DESCRIPTION</title>

<para>
This command displays a pathname of a concrete file on a filesystem node,
which is corresponding to a Gfarm file specified in the command argument.
The pathname is relative to the top directory of a spool directory of gfsd.
</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="options"><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-I</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
If this option is specified, inode_numbers and generation_numbers
which are separated by colon (:) are expected as arguments.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-s</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">spool_directory</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
If this command is invoked with a privilege which can access gfsd
spool directory, and if <option>-I</option> is not specified,
the gfspoolpath command will check whether the file size of metadata and
the size of the concrete file are same or not, and displays warning
when they are different.
This option specifies the pathname of the gfsd spool directory for the check.
If this option is not specified, /var/gfarm-spool is assumed.
If there isn't enough privilege, this check is simply skipped.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="bugs"><title>BUGS</title>
<para>
No error is reported, if the command argument refers a directory.
</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
