<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1.2//EN"
  "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.1.2/docbookx.dtd">


<refentry id="gfstress.rb.1">

<refentryinfo><date>7 Mar 2013</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfstress.rb</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>
<refnamediv id="name">
<refname>gfstress.rb</refname>
<refpurpose>Gfarm stress test</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id="synopsis">
<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">gfstress.rb</command>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-t, --testdir <replaceable>test directory</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-m, --gfarm2fs <replaceable>gfarm2fs mount point</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-n, --number <replaceable>number of pseudo users</replaceable></arg>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat">-T, --timeout <replaceable>timeout(seconds)</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id="description"><title>DESCRIPTION</title>
<para>This comannd executes gfperf-metadata, gfperf-tree, gfperf-read, gfperf-write, gfperf-replica in parallel to make gfarm system high load average.
gfperf-read, gfperf-write, gfperf-replica are executed for each gfsd servers.
</para>
<para>
This command runs until an error occured by default.
If you need to stop, press Ctrl-C or send TERM signal.
If you want set timeout, -T option is usable.
</para>
<para>
Number of pseudo users means multiplex set of gfperf-metadata, gfperf-tree, gfperf-read, gfperf-write, gfperf-replica. Same as multiplex execution of this command.
</para>
<para>
If gfarm2fs mount point is specified, more gfperf-metadata, gfperf-tree, gfperf-read, gfeprf-write commands that use gfarm2fs are executed.
</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="options"><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-t, --testdir</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">test_directory</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This directory is used for high load average test.
The default is gfarm:///stress .
All files and directories are removed at the end of testing.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-m, --gfarm2fs</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">gfarm2fs_mountpoint</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify gfarm2fs mount point
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-n, --number</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">number_of_pseudo_users</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify number of pseudo users.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-T, --timeout</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">seconds</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify timeout.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
