<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1.2//EN"
  "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.1.2/docbookx.dtd">

<!-- $Id$ -->

<refentry id="config-gfarm-update.8">

<refentryinfo><date>2 Feb 2015</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>config-gfarm-update</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>8</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id="name">
<refname>config-gfarm-update</refname>
<refpurpose>upgrades/updates metadata server of Gfarm</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id="synopsis">
<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat"><replaceable>options</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<cmdsynopsis sepchar=" ">
  <command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command>
    <arg choice="plain" rep="norepeat">--update</arg>
    <arg choice="opt" rep="norepeat"><replaceable>options</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id="description"><title>DESCRIPTION</title>
<para>
<command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command> upgrades/updates
the backend database of a metadata server.
Unless the metadata server is configured as the private mode,
the root privilege is required to run this command.
It reads the configuration file for <command moreinfo="none">gfmd</command>
(<filename moreinfo="none">gfmd.conf</filename>), in order to get
information for accessing the backend database.
</para>

<para>
<command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command> can enable the
following features of the backend database:
</para>

  <itemizedlist>
  <listitem>
  <para>XML Path Language (XPath) support</para>
  </listitem>

  <listitem>
  <para>Metadata replication among metadata servers</para>
  </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>

<para>
Whether the backend database supports those features or not is
initially configured by <command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm</command>.
If you would like to enable a feature after the configuration, run
<command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update --update</command> with
<option>-X</option> and/or <option>-r</option> options.
The option <option>-X</option> enables XPath support and the option
<option>-r</option> enables metadata replication.
</para>

<para>
<command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command> is also used for
upgrading the backend database.
Sometimes Gfarm contains incompatible changes against older releases.
With <option>--update</option> option,
<command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command> edits table schema
and/or data in the database for upgrading, if needed.
</para>

<para>
When you update/upgrade the metadata server, you must stop
<command moreinfo="none">gfmd</command> beforehand.
If there are some metadata servers in a file system, run
<command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command> on every metadata
servers.
After the update/upgrade, it starts a metadata server on the host.
</para>

<para>
Like <command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm</command>,
also <command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command> has 
<option>-t</option> option which shows values of all configurable parameters,
like this:
</para>

<screen>
$ config-gfarm-update -t
prefix [--prefix]:
metadata backend    [-b]: postgresql
metadata directory  [-l]: /var/gfarm-pgsql
postgresql admin user        [-U]: postgres
postgresql admin password    [-W]: (auto generated)
postgresql user              [-u]: gfarm
postgresql password          [-w]: (auto generated)
postgresql prefix            [-P]: /usr
postgresql version           [-V]: 8.4
postgresql XML supported     [-X]: no
postgresql data checksum support
                             [-E]: no
portmaster port              [-p]: 10602
metadata replication         [-r]: yes
metadata journal directory   [-j]: /var/gfarm-metadata/journal
</screen>

<para>
It is recommended to execute
<command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update -t</command> before
update/upgrade.
</para>

<para>
In case that the backend database is PostgreSQL and
<command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command> is executed without
<option>--update</option> option, <command moreinfo="none">psql</command>
command is invoked.
<command moreinfo="none">psql</command> is a front-end terminal to the
backend database.
It enables you to type in queries interactively.
This is useful since a connection from <command moreinfo="none">psql</command>
to the PostgreSQL server is established automatically.
</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="options"><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--prefix</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">path</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
If this option is given,
<command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command> reads
<filename moreinfo="none">PREFIX/etc/gfmd.conf</filename> as the
configuration file of <command moreinfo="none">gfmd</command>.
By default, it reads 
<filename moreinfo="none">%%SYSCONFDIR%%/etc/gfmd.conf</filename>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-P</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">prefix</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify an installation prefix of the backend database (e.g. /usr/local).
When <command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command> executes a
PostgreSQL command such as <command>psql</command>, it assumes the command
is installed under the given prefix.
If this option is omitted,
<command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command> searches directories
listed in the environment variable <envar>PATH</envar> for the commands.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-l</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">path</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify a path to the directory where the backend database puts files to
store metadata of Gfarm.
</para>
<para>
If the backend database is PostgreSQL, the directory is commonly called
PGDATA directory.
The default is <filename moreinfo="none">PREFIX/var/gfarm-pgsql</filename>
where PREFIX is a prefix given by <option>--prefix</option> option.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-f</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">file</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
When <command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command> invokes
<command moreinfo="none">psql</command> as a front-end terminal to
PostgreSQL, <command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command> 
passes <option>-f</option> option and the given
<parameter moreinfo="none">file</parameter> argument to 
<command moreinfo="none">psql</command>.
<command moreinfo="none">psql</command> interprets commands written in
the file, instead of reading commands interactively.
This option is ignored when also <option>--update</option> option is
specified.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-o</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">option</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
When <command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command> invokes
<command moreinfo="none">psql</command> as a front-end terminal to
PostgreSQL, <command moreinfo="none">config-gfarm-update</command> also
passes the given option to <command moreinfo="none">psql</command>.
This option is ignored when also <option>--update</option> option
is specified.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-j</option> <parameter moreinfo="none">file</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify a path to the directory where <command moreinfo="none">gfmd</command>
puts journal files.
The default value is
<filename moreinfo="none">PREFIX/var/gfarm-metadata/journal</filename>
where PREFIX is a prefix given by <option>--prefix</option> option.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--help</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Show usage, then exit.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-t</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Show values of configurable parameters in human readable format,
then exit immediately.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-N</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Do not start <command moreinfo="none">gfmd</command> after update/upgrade.
This option takes effect only when also <option>--update</option> option
is specified.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-r</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Enable metadata replication among metadata servers.
This option takes effect only when also <option>--update</option> option
is specified.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-X</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Enable XML Path Language (XPath) support for querying XML extended attributes.
This option takes effect only when also <option>--update</option> option
is specified.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="files"><title>FILES</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><filename moreinfo="none">%%SYSCONFDIR%%/gfmd.conf</filename></term>
<listitem>
<para>
configuration file for <command moreinfo="none">gfmd</command>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="see-also"><title>SEE ALSO</title>
<para>
<citerefentry><refentrytitle>config-gfarm</refentrytitle><manvolnum>8</manvolnum></citerefentry>,
<citerefentry><refentrytitle>gfmd</refentrytitle><manvolnum>8</manvolnum></citerefentry>,
<citerefentry><refentrytitle>psql</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum></citerefentry>
</para>

</refsect1>

</refentry>
