<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1//EN">
<!-- $Id$ -->

<refentry id='gfmd.8'>

<refentryinfo><date>12 Nov 2006</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfmd</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>8</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id='name'>
<refname>gfmd(8)</refname>
<refpurpose>Gfarm metadata server</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id='synopsis'>
<cmdsynopsis>
  <command>gfmd</command>
    <arg choice='opt'><replaceable>options</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id='description'><title>DESCRIPTION</title>
<para><command>gfmd</command> is a Gfarm filesystem metadata server for accessing
the filesystem metadata of the Gfarm filesystem.  <command>gfmd</command> must
be running on a metadata server node in advance.</para>

<para>It is possible for <command>gfmd</command> to be executed as a non-privileged user
process, although only the user that executes the <command>gfmd</command> can be authenticated.
Other users cannot use it.</para>

<para>In order to execute <command>gfmd</command> as a non-privileged user process, a
configuration file for a user needs to be specified by the -f option.
At the very least, the port number used by <command>gfmd</command> should be altered to a
non-privileged port number by the metadb_serverport statement in the
configuration file or by the -p option.</para>

<para>In this case, the altered port number for <command>gfmd</command> should be
specified by the metadb_serverport statement in <filename>~/.gfarmrc</filename>
or in <filename>%%SYSCONFDIR%%/gfarm.conf</filename> on a client node.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='options'><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-L</option> <parameter>log-level</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a log priority level.  The log output, which priority
is higher or equal to this level, will be sent to syslog or standard error.
Please refer gfarm.conf(5) for the priority levels which can be specified
by this option.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-P</option> <parameter>pid-file</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a file name to be used to record the process ID of gfmd.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-d</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies the debug mode.  With the -d option, gfmd runs as a
foreground process, not a daemon.</para>
<para>
If this option is specified and <option>-L</option> is not specified,
the log level is set to "debug".
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-f</option> <parameter>config-file</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a configuration file that is read instead of the default
configuration file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-p</option> <parameter>port</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a port number to be used by gfmd.  By default, 601 is used.</para>
<para>The default port requires root privileges, although privileged ports
are not necessary to execute gfmd.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-s</option> <parameter>syslog-facility</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a syslog facility to report errors encountered by gfmd.
By default,
local0 is used.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-u</option> <parameter></parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a syslog facility to report errors encountered by gfmd.
By default,
local0 is used.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-?</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays a list of command options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='files'><title>FILES</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><filename>%%SYSCONFDIR%%/gfarm.conf</filename></term>
<listitem>
<para>configuration file</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='see-also'><title>SEE ALSO</title>
<para>
<!--
<citerefentry><refentrytitle>gfmd.conf</refentrytitle><manvolnum>5</manvolnum></citerefentry>,
-->
<citerefentry><refentrytitle>gfarm.conf</refentrytitle><manvolnum>5</manvolnum></citerefentry>
</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>

