<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1//EN">
<!-- $Id$ -->

<refentry id='gfsd.8'>

<refentryinfo><date>12 Nov 2006</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfsd</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>8</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id='name'>
<refname>gfsd(8)</refname>
<refpurpose>Gfarm filesystem daemon</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id='synopsis'>
<cmdsynopsis>
  <command>gfsd</command>
    <arg choice='opt'><replaceable>options</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id='description'><title>DESCRIPTION</title>
<para><command>gfsd</command> is a filesystem daemon for the Gfarm filesystem, which runs on every filesystem node, usually, with  root privileges.</para>

<para><command>gfsd</command> provides remote file operations with access control in the
Gfarm filesystem as well as user authentication, file replication,
fast invocation, and node resource status monitoring.</para>

<para>It is possible for <command>gfsd</command> to be executed as a non-privileged user
process, although only the user that executes the <command>gfsd</command> can be authenticated.
Other users cannot use it.</para>

<para>In order to execute <command>gfsd</command> as a non-privileged user process, a
configuration file for a user needs to be specified with the -f option.
At the very least, the port number used by <command>gfsd</command> should be altered to a
non-privileged port number using the spool_serverport statement in the
configuration file, or the -p option.</para>

<para>In this case, the altered port number of <command>gfsd</command> should be
specified with the spool_serverport statement in ~/.gfarmrc or
%%SYSCONFDIR%%/gfarm.conf on a client node.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='options'><title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-L</option> <parameter>log-level</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a log priority level.  The log output, which priority
is higher or equal to this level, will be sent to syslog or standard error.
Please refer gfarm.conf(5) for the priority levels which can be specified
by this option.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-P</option> <parameter>pid-file</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a file name which records the process ID of gfsd.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-U</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Makes gfsd not create a UNIX domain socket.
This option is useful to invoke multiple instances of gfsd
to provide multiple spool directories on the host.
When new files are created by processes on the local host,
the gfsd which doesn't have this -U option specified will be used
to provide spool directory for the new files.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-d</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies the debug mode.  With the -d option, gfsd runs as a
foreground process, not a daemon.</para>
<para>
If this option is specified and <option>-L</option> is not specified,
the log level is set to "debug".
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-f</option> <parameter>config-file</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a configuration file that is read instead of the default
configuration file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-l</option> <parameter>IP-address</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies the IP address from which the gfsd accepts TCP and UDP
requests.
The default address is all IP addresses of the host.
This option is useful to invoke multiple instances of gfsd
to provide multiple spool directories on the host.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-p</option> <parameter>port-number</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a port number for TCP and UDP used by gfsd.  By default, 600
is used.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-r</option> <parameter>directory</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a spool directory
for a Gfarm filesystem on this filesystem node.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-s</option> <parameter>syslog-facility</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies a syslog facility to report errors by gfsd.  By default,
local0 is used.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-v</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Makes gfsd output verbose log message on authentication.
This is useful, when one has to resolve an issue about GSI authenticaion.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-?</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays a list of command options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='files'><title>FILES</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><filename>%%SYSCONFDIR%%/gfarm.conf</filename></term>
<listitem>
<para>configuration file</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='see-also'><title>SEE ALSO</title>
<para>
<citerefentry><refentrytitle>gfarm.conf</refentrytitle><manvolnum>5</manvolnum></citerefentry>
</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
