.Id $Id$
.TH gfrep 1 "1 May 2002"
.SH NAME

gfrep \- replicate a Gfarm file

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B gfrep
.B \-H
.I hostfile
.I gfarm-URL

.B gfrep
.B \-D
.I domainname
.I gfarm-URL

.B gfrep
.B \-I
.I fragment-index
[
.B \-s
.I src-node
]
.B \-d
.I dest-node
.I gfarm-URL

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBgfrep\fP creates a replica of a Gfarm file \fIgfarm-URL\fP.
Destination filesystem nodes can be specified by the \fIhostfile\fP or
the \fIdomainname\fP.

With the \fB-I\fP option, \fBgfrep\fP creates a replica of a specified
file fragment \fIfragment-index\fP of a Gfarm file \fIgfarm-URL\fP on
the filesystem node \fIdest-node\fP specified by the -d option.  When
the -s option is specified, the file fragment is copied from the
\fIsrc-node\fP.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-H
.I hostfile
.br
specifies a list of filesystem nodes that will be replicated to.
\fIhostfile\fP consists of a filesystem node in each line.  The total
number of file fragments should be equal to the number of nodes listed
in the \fIhostfile\fP.
.br
if ``-'' is specified, standard input is used to read the host list.
.TP
.B \-D
.I domainname
.br
specifies a domainname of filesystem nodes that will be replicated
to.
.TP
.B \-I
.I fragment-index
.br
specifies a file fragment.  It is a fragment index or a section name
describing its architecture.
.TP
.B \-s
.I src-node
.br
specifies a source filesystem node from which the file fragment will
be copied.  This option needs to be specified with the \fB-I\fP
option.
.TP
.B \-d
.I dest-node
.br
specifies a destination filesystem node to which the file fragment
will be copied.  This option needs to be specified with the \fB-I\fP
option.
.TP
.B \-?
.br
displays a list of command options.

