.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GFRM" "1" "25 Dec 2014" "Gfarm" "Gfarm"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
gfrm \- remove Gfarm files, directories, or file replicas
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 5
\fBgfrm\fR [\-frn] [\-h\ \fIfilesystem\-node\fR] [\-D\ \fIdomain\-name\fR] \fIgfarm\-URL\fR...
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBgfrm\fR
removes each specified file. It does not remove directories unless the
\fB\-r\fR
option is specified.
.PP
With the
\fB\-h\fR
or
\fB\-D\fR
option,
\fBgfrm\fR
removes file replicas on the specified filesystem node(s). A file replica cannot be removed when the number of replicas is less than gfarm.ncopy or gfarm.replicainfo extended attribute.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Ignores no such file or directory error.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR
Prints file names to be deleted, but does not delete them.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR
Removes all entries under the directories specified by the command\-line argument recursively.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fIfilesystem\-node\fR
Specifies a filesystem node from which file replicas will be removed.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR \fIdomain\-name\fR
Specifies a domain name of filesystem nodes on which file replicas will be removed.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR
Displays a list of command options.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBgfncopy\fR(1),
\fBgfarm_attr\fR(5)
