.Id $Id$
.TH gfrun 1 "1 May 2002"
.SH NAME

gfrun, gfrsh, gfssh \- run Gfarm parallel programs

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B gfrun
[ -G
.I gfarm-URL
| -H
.I hostfile
]
.I command
.I args
.br

.B gfrsh
[ -G
.I gfarm-URL
| -H
.I hostfile
]
.I command
.I args
.br

.B gfssh
[ -G
.I gfarm-URL
| -H
.I hostfile
]
.I command
.I args
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBgfrun\fP executes a parallel command on filesystem nodes.
Filesystem nodes are allocated by file-affinity scheduling using the
\fIgfarm-URL\fP, or by the \fIhostfile\fP explicitly that lists
filesystem nodes.  In the case of the file-affinity scheduling,
\fBgfrun\fP schedules the same number of filesystem nodes as the
number of the Gfarm fragments, taking into consideration the physical
locations of each fragment replicas of the Gfarm file, and filesystem
node status.

If the \-H option is missing, a Gfarm file used by file-affinity
scheduling is specified by the first existent Gfarm file in the
argument list \fIargs\fP.

To inform the node index (node) and the total number of nodes
(nnode), each process is executed by the following command:
"gfrcmd hostname command \-N nnode -I node args"

\fBgfrsh\fP and \fBgfssh\fP utilizes rsh and ssh, respectively,
instead of gfrcmd.

\fICommand\fP can be specified by a gfarm-URL that is registered using
gfreg(1).

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-G
.I gfarm-URL
.br
specifies a Gfarm file \fIgfarm-URL\fP for file-affinity scheduling.
.TP
.B \-H
.I hostfile
.br
specifies a \fIhostfile\fP that lists filesystem nodes.  If the -G
option is specified with the -H option, this option is ignored.
.TP
.B \-?
.br
displays a list of command options.

.SH ENVIROMNENT VARIABLES

.TP
.B GFRUN_CMD
.br
specifies a remote shell command.  If globus-job-run is specified,
gfrun executes each process using globus-job-run.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gfmpirun (1)
