<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook V4.1//EN">

<refentry id='gfservice.conf.5'>

<refentryinfo><date>8 Mar 2013</date></refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>gfservice.conf</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>5</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo>Gfarm</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv id='name'>
<refname>gfservice.conf</refname>
<refpurpose>configuration file of gfservice</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<!-- body begins here -->

<refsect1 id='description'><title>DESCRIPTION</title>

<para>
<command>gfservice</command> reads configuration data from the file.
(<command>gfservice-agent</command> doesn't read a configuration file.)
</para>

<para>
The configuration file itself is a Bourne-shell script.
It is <emphasis>evaluated as a script</emphasis> by
<command>gfservice</command>.
Here is an example of the configuration file:
</para>

<literallayout>
	# gfmd entries.
	gfmd1=db1.example.com
	gfmd2=db2.example.com
</literallayout>

<para>
Same as Bourne-shell script, lines beginning with '#' and empty lines
are ignored.
The other lines declare shell variables.
In this example, the variable <replaceable>gfmd1</replaceable> is set to
<replaceable>db1.example.com</replaceable> and
<replaceable>gfmd2</replaceable> to
<replaceable>db12.example.com</replaceable> respectively.
Whitespaces <emphasis>must not</emphasis> be inserted around '='.
</para>

<para>
The variables named <replaceable>gfmd1</replaceable> and
<replaceable>gfmd2</replaceable> are used as "host-id".
To specify a remote host, <command>gfservice</command> uses host-id
instead of hostname:
</para>

<literallayout>
	<command>gfservice <replaceable>start-gfmd</replaceable> <replaceable>gfmd2</replaceable></command>
</literallayout>

<para>
Executing the command, <command>gfservice</command> starts gfmd on
<replaceable>gfmd2</replaceable> server, metadb2.example.com.
Note that the numbers at the tails of host-ids must be beginning with 1
and must be assigned successively.
</para>

<para>
For specifying gfsd servers and client hosts, use host-ids
"gfs<replaceable>n</replaceable>" and "client<replaceable>n</replaceable>"
respectively:
</para>

<literallayout>
	# gfsd entries.
	gfsd1=fs1.example.com

	# client entries
	client1=pc1.example.com
	client2=pc2.example.com
	client3=pc2.example.com
</literallayout>

<para>
In addition with host-id variables, <command>gfservice</command> recognizes
some variables related to host-id.
</para>

<literallayout>
	# Configuration about gfmd1.
	gfmd1_CONFIG_GFARM_OPTIONS="-X -A $LOGNAME"
	gfmd1_SSH="ssh -i $HOME/.ssh/id_rsa_gfservice"
	gfmd1_SUDO=/usr/local/bin/sudo
</literallayout>

<para>
As shown in this example, a value containing whitespaces can be set
by quotation marks.
<varname>$VARNAME</varname> is expanded to the value of the shell or
environment variable <varname>VARNAME</varname>.
</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='gfmd-variables'><title>VARIABLES ABOUT GFMD</title>

<para>
Variables named "gfmd<replaceable>n</replaceable>" (gfmd1, gfmd2, ...)
define gfmd servers.
Variable names beginning with "gfmd<replaceable>n</replaceable>_"  such
as <replaceable>gfmd1_SSH</replaceable> set configuration parameters of
the corresponding "gfmd<replaceable>n</replaceable>" server.
<command>gfservice</command> currently the following variables:
</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>gfmd<replaceable>n</replaceable></varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Register a gfmd server.
Its value represents a hostname (or an IP address) of the server.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>gfmd<replaceable>n</replaceable>_GFBINDIR</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify a path to a directory where <command>gfservice-agent</command>
command is installed on the gfmd server.
If the variable is declared, <command>gfservice</command> executes
<command>"<varname>$gfmd<replaceable>n</replaceable>_GFBINDIR</varname>/gfservice-agent"</command>.
Otherwise it executes <command>"gfservice-agent"</command>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>gfmd<replaceable>n</replaceable>_CONFIG_GFARM_OPTIONS</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify options of <command>config-gfarm</command> command.
The default value is empty (no option).
<command>gfservice</command> refers this variable to perform
<command>config-gfarm</command> and many other sub-commands.
Do not delete or edit the declaration even after
<command>config-gfarm</command> has been complete.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>gfmd<replaceable>n</replaceable>_PRIVATE_MODE</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Set this variable to "true" if gfmd on the remote host is configured
in private mode.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>gfmd<replaceable>n</replaceable>_SSH</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify a path to an SSH client command and its options.
The variable is used when <command>gfservice</command> executes an SSH
client command to connect with the gfsd server.
The default value is "ssh".
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>gfmd<replaceable>n</replaceable>_SUDO</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify a path to a Sudo command and options.
The variable is used when <command>gfservice</command> executes a Sudo
command on the gfsd server via SSH.
The default value is "sudo".
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='gfsd-variables'><title>VARIABLES ABOUT GFSD</title>

<para>
Variables named "gfsd<replaceable>n</replaceable>" (gfsd1, gfsd2, ...)
define gfsd servers.
Variable names beginning with "gfsd<replaceable>n</replaceable>_" such as
<replaceable>gfsd1_SSH</replaceable> set configuration parameters of the
corresponding "gfsd<replaceable>n</replaceable>" server.
<command>gfservice</command> currently recognizes the following variables:
</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>gfsd<replaceable>n</replaceable></varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Register a gfsd server.
Its value represents a hostname (or an IP address) of the server.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>gfsd<replaceable>n</replaceable>_GFBINDIR</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify a path to a directory where <command>gfservice-agent</command>
command is installed on the gfsd server.
If the variable is declared, <command>gfservice</command> executes
<command>"<varname>$gfsd<replaceable>n</replaceable>_GFBINDIR</varname>/gfservice-agent"</command>.
Otherwise it executes <command>"gfservice-agent"</command>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>gfsd<replaceable>n</replaceable>_CONFIG_GFSD_OPTIONS</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify options of <command>config-gfsd</command> command.
The default value is empty (no option).
<command>gfservice</command> refers this variable to perform
<command>config-gfsd</command> and many other sub-commands.
Do not delete or edit the declaration even after
<command>config-gfsd</command> has been complete.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>gfsd<replaceable>n</replaceable>_PRIVATE_MODE</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Set this variable to "true" if gfsd on the remote host is configured
in private mode.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>gfsd<replaceable>n</replaceable>_SSH</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify a path to an SSH client command and its options.
The variable is used when <command>gfservice</command> executes an SSH
client command to connect with the gfsd server.
The default value is "ssh".
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>gfsd<replaceable>n</replaceable>_SUDO</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify a path to a Sudo command and options.
The variable is used when <command>gfservice</command> executes a Sudo
command on the gfsd server via SSH.
The default value is "sudo".
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id='client-variables'><title>VARIABLES ABOUT CLIENT</title>

<para>
Variables named "client<replaceable>n</replaceable>" (client1, client2, ...)
define client hosts.
Their values are hostnames (or IP addresses).
Variable names beginning with "client<replaceable>n</replaceable>_" 
such as <replaceable>client1_SUDO</replaceable> set configuration parameters
of the corresponding "client<replaceable>n</replaceable>" host.
<command>gfservice</command> currently recognizes the following variables:
</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>client<replaceable>n</replaceable></varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Register a client host.
Its value represents a hostname (or an IP address) of the host.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>client<replaceable>n</replaceable>_GFBINDIR</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify a path to a directory where <command>gfservice-agent</command>
command is installed on the client host.
If the variable is declared, <command>gfservice</command> executes
<command>"<varname>$client<replaceable>n</replaceable>_GFBINDIR</varname>/gfservice-agent"</command>.
Otherwise it executes <command>"gfservice-agent"</command>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>client<replaceable>n</replaceable>_GFARM2FS_BIN_PATH</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify a path to a directory where <command>gfarm2fs</command>
command is installed on the client host. The the variable is declared,
<command>gfservice</command> executes <command>gfarm2fs</command> with
specified path. The default value is %%BINDIR%%.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>client<replaceable>n</replaceable>_SSH</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify a path to an SSH client command and its options.
The variable is used when <command>gfservice</command> executes an SSH
client command to connect with the client host.
The default value is "ssh".
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>client<replaceable>n</replaceable>_SUDO</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify a path to a Sudo command and options.
The variable is used when <command>gfservice</command> executes a Sudo
command on the client host via SSH.
The default value is "sudo".
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><varname>client<replaceable>n</replaceable>_GFARM_CONF</varname></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Specify a gfarm2.conf file in absolute path.
If a value is not set, <command>gfservice</command> uses a same path as
the path of gfarm2.conf in gfmd1(determined from the 'gfmd1_CONFIG_GFARM_OPTIONS'
shell variable).
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</refsect1>

</refentry>
